# Minimum Profit Action Reference

Minimum Profit actions are editor commands that can be directly bound to the menu or a key.

## about

About

Shows the "About Minimum Profit" information.

## build

Build project... [f2]

Invokes the building of a Make project. If the `Makefile' file exists in the working directory, all targets are extracted from it and shown in a list dialog for the user to select one. The selected one will be called as the only argument for the `make' program and its output read. All output will be catched and shown in a read-only document. Compiler errors and warnings will be highlighted and can be navigated by using the `seek_next' and `seek_prev' actions. The `open_under_cursor' action can be used to edit each error or warning.

## check_for_updates

Check for updates

Checks if there is a new version in https://triptico.com (Minimum Profit Project Site).

## close

Close [ctrl-w]

Closes the active document. If there are unsaved changes, a confirmation dialog is shown.

## close_all

Close all

Closes all open documents.

## complete

Complete... [ctrl-space]

Takes the (probably partial) word under the cursor and searches for words in the current document that start with it. If more than one is found, a list dialog is shown to make a selection. The word will be replaced with the selected one.

## complete_options

Code completion options...

Shows a form to set the `clang' command line options for code completion.

## complete_symbol

Symbol completion...

Uses a similar approach than the `complete' action, but using the current tags file as the completion list. If no _tags_ file exist in the working directory, the *ctags* program is invoked to build it.

For other uses of the tags file, see `find_tag'.

## complete_with_clang

Completion with clang...

Does code completion using the `clang' tool.

## copy_mark

Copy block [ctrl-c]

Copies the currently selected block to the clipboard.

## cut_line

Cut line

Cuts current line.

## cut_lines_with_string

Cut lines containing a string...

Cuts to the clipboard all lines from the document or block that match a regular expression.

## cut_mark

Cut block [ctrl-x]

Copies the currently selected block to the clipboard and deletes the block.

## delete

Delete character [delete]

Delete the character over the cursor.

## delete_left

Delete character to the left [backspace]

Deletes the character to the left of the cursor.

## delete_line

Delete line [ctrl-y]

Deletes the line under the cursor.

## delete_mark

Delete block

Deletes the currently selected block.

## document_list

Document list [ctrl-e]

Shows a dialog with the list of currently open documents. The list cursor will be over the active one and the documents with pending modifications will be prefixed with an asterisk. Selecting a different one will make it become the active.

## encoding

Set charset encoding...

Shows a dialog asking for a string describing the charset encoding that will be used when saving or opening new documents. If an empty string is entered, the current locale will be used.

See ./mp_encoding.html (Mininum Profit character encoding support) for more information.

## eval

Execute MPSL code... [escape]

Shows a dialog asking for a string of MPSL code that will be executed.

## eval_doc

Execute document as MPSL

Executes the active document as MPSL code.

## exec_action

Execute action on document...

Shows the full list of available actions in a dialog and ask the user to execute one of it over the current document.

## exec_command

Run system command...

Shows a dialog asking for a system command to execute. If the command is preceded by the pipe symbol (|), the active document will be fed as the standard input of the command; otherwise, the standard output of the command will be inserted in the cursor position.

## exit

Exit [close-window, ctrl-q]

Closes all documents and exists Minimum Profit.

## export

Export...

Exports the current document to an external format. The document must be in the mptxt format. Please see the mptxt_format.txt document for the markup and the supported output formats.

## filter_selection

Filter selection through system command...

Filters the block selection (or the full document, if no selection is active) through a system command.

## find_tag

Search tag... [ctrl-t]

Shows a dialog asking for a tag to search. The tags file will be read from the working directory and the tag searched there; all symbols starting with it will be shown in a list dialog. When selecting a tag from that list, the file containing it will be open and the cursor moved to where the tag is. This is a useful way of finding where a function or variable is defined.

If no tags file exist in the working directory, the `ctags' program is invoked to build it.

For other uses of the tags file, see `complete_symbol'.

## goto

Go to line... [ctrl-g]

Shows a dialog asking for a line number. If accepted, the current document cursor will move to that line (if existent).

## grep

Grep (find inside) files... [alt-g]

Shows a dialog asking for a string to be searched, and an optional spec of files to search the string in. If no spec is given, all files in the working directory are scanned. Matches are shown in a read-only document, and each match can be directly open by using the 'open_under_cursor' action.

This is a useful way to find where a function or variable is used.

## help

Help on word over cursor [f1]

Picks the word under the cursor and asks the underlying system for help about that term.

## hex_view

Hexadecimal viewer...

Shows a dialog to open a read-only, hexadecimal view of a file.

## idle

Called when idle [idle]

Called when the idle timeout expires.

## ignore_last_misspell

Ignore last misspelled word

Ignores the last misspelled word found by `seek_misspelled' by adding it to a whitelist so it won't be found again.

## indent_block

Indent block [alt-cursor-right]

Indents the block by one tab space, or the current line if the is no selected block.

## insert_line

Insert line [enter]

Inserts a new line. If the cursor is in the middle of a line, it's split in two.

## insert_m_dash

Insert m-dash character [alt-kp-minus, alt-minus]

Inserts an m-dash character.

## insert_next_item

Insert next item

Inserts a new numbered item into the text. Numbered items are as this way:

```
 * 1: 
 * 2: 
```

Every time a new item is requested, the current document is scanned for the greatest number and the next one is inserted.

## insert_page_break

Insert page break character (FF)

Inserts a page break (form feed) character.

## insert_raw_string

Insert raw string [insert-raw-string]

Inserts a string into the document.

## insert_real_tab

Insert real tab character [shift-tab]

Inserts a tab character (\t or ASCII 9) in the cursor position. This is done regardless of the `tabs_as_spaces' configuration variable; see the `insert_tab' action for more configurable tab operations.

## insert_space

Insert space [space]

Inserts a space, triggering word wrapping, if active.

## insert_tab

Insert tab [tab]

Inserts a tabulator, triggering word wrapping, if active. The tab will be a real tab or a set of spaces regarding the `tabs_as_spaces' configuration variable. For a hardcoded tab character (\t) see the `insert_real_tab' action.

## insert_template

Insert template...

Shows a list dialog with the names of the templates for the user to select one, that will be inserted in the cursor position.

## insert_time_stamp

Insert time stamp

Inserts a time stamp in the cursor position. The format is the one given in the `mp.config.time_stamp_format' configuration directive.

## join_paragraph

Join a paragraph in one line

Joins the text from the cursor position to the next empty line as one paragraph.

## line_options

Line options...

Shows a dialog asking for line configuration options, like word wrapping, end of line string, etc.

## load_session

Load session

Loads a session, previously saved by `save_session'.

## mark

Mark selection block

Marks a selection block.

## mark_all

Mark all

Marks (selects) all the document.

## mark_tag

Mark beginning/end of block [f9]

Marks the beginning or the end of the block.

## mark_tag_vertical

Mark vertical block [ctrl-b]

Marks the beginning or the end of a vertical (also known as rectangular) block.

## mark_vertical

Mark vertical selection block

Marks a vertical block.

## maze

Play "Maze"

Executes the "Maze" game.

## menu

Menu [alt-a, alt-space, ctrl-a, mouse-menu, shift-f10]

Calls the menu.

## mouse_drag_mark

Mark using mouse dragging [mouse-drag]

This action is called by the underlying driver when the mouse is used to drag over text. It must not be called nor bound to a key.

## move_bof

Beginning of document [ctrl-home]

Moves the cursor to the beginning of the document (first line, first column).

## move_bol

Beginning of line [home]

Moves the cursor to the beginning of the current line (first column).

## move_down

Line down [cursor-down]

Moves the cursor to the next line.

## move_eof

End of document [ctrl-end]

Moves the cursor to the last line of the document.

## move_eol

End of line [end]

Moves the cursor to the end of the current line.

## move_left

Character left [cursor-left]

Moves the cursor one character to the left. If it's in the beginning of a line, moves to the last character of the previous line.

## move_mouse_wheel_down

Mouse wheel up [mouse-wheel-down]

Moves the cursor four lines down.

## move_mouse_wheel_up

Mouse wheel down [mouse-wheel-up]

Moves the cursor four lines up.

## move_para_down

Paragraph down

Moves the cursor down to the next paragraph.

## move_para_up

Paragraph up

Moves the cursor up to the previous paragraph.

## move_pgdn

Page down [page-down]

Moves the cursor a page down.

## move_pgup

Page up [page-up]

Moves the cursor a page up.

## move_right

Character right [cursor-right]

Moves the cursor one character to the right. If it's over the end of the line, moves to the first character of the next line.

## move_section_down

Move one section down [ctrl-cursor-down]

Moves to the previous section, if the current document has a syntax detection that include sections.

## move_section_up

Move one section up [ctrl-cursor-up]

Moves to the next section, if the current document has a syntax detection that include sections.

## move_to_mouse_position

Move cursor to mouse click [mouse-left-button]

Moves the cursor to where the mouse is. This action is called by the underlying system and must not be directly called nor bound to a key.

## move_up

Line up [cursor-up]

Moves the cursor to the previous line.

## move_word_left

Word left [ctrl-cursor-left]

Moves the cursor to the beginning of the previous word.

## move_word_right

Word right [ctrl-cursor-right]

Moves the cursor to the beginning of the next word.

## new

New

Creates a new unnamed document.

## next

Next [ctrl-n]

Select the next document as the active one. The list of documents is circular; if the active one is the last, the first one is selected.

## open

Open... [ctrl-o]

Shows a dialog to open a file. Its behaviour and look are system-dependent.

If the document to be opened is password-protected, a dialog asking for the password will also appear.

## open_config_file

Edit configuration file

Opens the user configuration file for editing. It doesn't have to exist.

## open_dropped_files

Open dropped files [dropped-files]

Opens all files dropped by the user from an external file manager.

## open_folder

Open folder...

Opens a folder with the directory editor.

## open_recent

Open recent files...

Shows a list of the recently open files to select one to reopen.

## open_templates_file

Edit templates file

Opens the templates file for edition. Templates defined here can be later inserted by calling `insert_template'. See the `mp_templates.sample' file included in the documentation for an example of the accepted format.

## open_under_cursor

Open file under cursor [ctrl-enter]

Picks the word in the current document under the cursor, accepts it as a document name and tries to open it. If it's in the format string:number, is accepted as a file name and a line number.

## paste_mark

Paste block [ctrl-v]

Pastes the text in the clipboard into the cursor position.

## pipes

Play "Pipes"

Executes the "Pipes" game.

## play_macro

Play macro [f7]

Replays all keystrokes recorded during the previous recording mode, activated by a call to `record_macro'.

## prev

Previous

Select the previous document as the active one. The list of documents is circular; if the active one is the first, the last one is selected.

## puzzle

Play "Puzzle"

## record_macro

Record macro [f10]

Toggles recording mode. When active, all keystrokes are recorded to further execute them by a call to `play_macro'.

## redo

Redo

Redoes the previously undone operation, if any.

## release_notes

Release notes

Shows the notes for this release.

## repeated_words_options

Repeated words options...

Sets the options for the `seek_repeated_word' action.

## replace

Replace... [ctrl-r]

Shows the search and replace dialog box.

## replace_next

Replace next

## replace_spaces_with_tabs

Replace spaces with tabs

Replaces all spaces in the document with real tabs (\t). The current tab size configuration is taken into account.

## replace_tabs_with_spaces

Replace tabs with spaces

Replaces all real tabs (\t) in the document with spaces. The current tab size configuration is taken into account.

## revert

Revert

Reverts the active document to the state on disk.

## save

Save... [ctrl-s]

Saves the active document. If it's unnamed, `save_as' is called instead.

## save_as

Save as...

Shows a dialog asking for a file name to save the current document as. Its behaviour and look are system-dependent.

## save_session

Save session

Saves all documents and its positions as a session to be later loaded by `load_session'.

## scroll_down

Scroll document down [alt-cursor-down]

Scrolls the document down.

## scroll_up

Scroll document up [alt-cursor-up]

Scrolls the document up.

## section_list

Section list... [ctrl-d]

Shows a list with the sections found in the current document. Selecting one of them moves the cursor there.

## seek

Search text... [ctrl-f]

Shows the search text dialog.

## seek_matching

Move to the matching bracket [ctrl-j]

Jump to the bracket matching the character under the cursor.

## seek_misspelled

Search misspelled word [f5]

Searches for the next misspelled word in the current document. If one is found, the cursor is moved there. If it's a false positive, the `ignore_last_misspell' action can be called to add the recently found word to a whitelist so it won't be found again.

## seek_next

Search next [f3]

Searches the next occurrence of the string entered by the `seek' action.

## seek_next_char

Move to next instance of current char [ctrl-page-down]

Searches for the next occurrence of the char under the cursor. This is useful, for instance, to jump to the next paren or brace.

## seek_prev

Search previous [ctrl-f3]

Same as `seek_next', but searching backwards.

## seek_prev_char

Move to previous instance of current char [ctrl-page-up]

Searches for the previous occurrence of the char under the cursor. This is useful, for instance, to jump to the previous paren or brace.

## seek_repeated_word

Search repeated word [f6]

Searches for repeated words. Controlled by the configuration directives `mp.config.rw_num_chars' and `mp.config.rw_max_dist'. A searching is done from the cursor position trying to find two words nearer from each other up to a maximum of the specified distance and that start or end with the same letters. If a pair is found, the words are highlighted as spelling errors and the cursor moved over the first one. Otherwise, a message marking the end is shown and nothing is done.

## select_word_under_cursor

Select word under cursor [mouse-left-dblclick]

Creates a selection block containing the work under the cursor.

## set_password

Password protect...

Shows a dialog asking (twice) for a password to protect the active document with when it's saved. From that moment on, each time the document is tried to open the password will be asked for.

Minimum Profit encrypts documents using a variant of the ARCFOUR algorithm.

## suspend

Suspend [ctrl-l]

Suspends the editor. Get back by typing `fg' in the shell.

## sync

Save modified texts

Saves all texts with pending modifications.

## tab_options

Tab options...

Shows a dialog asking for tabulator configuration options, like tab size, convert to spaces, etc.

## toggle_insert

Toggle insert/overwrite mode [insert]

Toggles between insert and overwrite modes.

## toggle_spellcheck

Toggle spellchecking

toggles spellchecking. When active, misspelled words will be shown underlined.

## toggle_visual_wrap

Toggle visual wrap [ctrl-k]

## undo

Undo [ctrl-z]

Undoes the last operation.

## unindent_block

Unindent block [alt-cursor-left]

Unindents the block by one tab space, or the current line if the is no selected block.

## unmark

Unmark block [f8]

Unmarks the selected block.

## vcs

Version Control... [ctrl-p]

Opens the version control options, if current directory has a detected one.

## word_count

Count words

Counts the number of words and lines in the active document.

## word_wrap_paragraph

Word-wrap a paragraph [f4]

Rebuilds the text from the cursor position to the following empty line using the wordwrapping setup. Wordwrapping must be set (see `line_options').

## zoom_in

Bigger font [ctrl-kp-plus, f12]

Selects a bigger font (only for GUIs).

## zoom_out

Smaller font [ctrl-kp-minus, f11]

Selects a smaller font (only for GUIs).


----
ttcdt <dev@triptico.com>
